# Simulation Outputs

Upon setting the necessary parameters and initializing the simulation run, examining the subsequent outputs becomes crucial. This section delves into the specific data generated by the simulation, including the point cloud output, the contribution output, and the OutputQuantities from CarMaker.

## LiDAR Point Cloud Output

The LiDAR point cloud output, a text file, consists of a total of 111,104 points, in accordance with the firing frequency set to 17 361 Hz. The LiDAR sensor executes a full rotation every 100 ms, generating a frame with each complete turn. This rotation rate was set to 10 Hz. Consequently, with 1,736 firings executed within every 100 ms interval, and each firing comprising 64 beams, a total of 111,104 points are produced.

A small excerpt from a sample point cloud output:.

```plaintext
-1 -1 1
0 0 0 0 1
0.1314314753 -1.723893285 8.091629982 7.631024346E-06 1
0 0 0 0 1
...
-0.5208556652 -1.633357882 21.03564262 9.996816516E-06 1
-0.1907826066 -1.719530582 5.090302944 1.97456684E-05 1
1.295488715 -1.785065055 49.57660294 8.312053978E-08 1
0.247970745 -1.721892238 6.382583618 1.22867059E-05 1
```

The initial line of the output confirms that the LiDAR is of the rotating type. The subsequent lines follow the format:

* float Xx float Yx float Zx float Ix Int Rx

Each line in this format signifies a point in the point cloud.

In this format, Xx, Yx, and Zx are the coordinates of the return for beam x, indicating the location of the point in a three-dimensional space. Ix represents the normalized amplitude of the current for beam x, a value that ranges from 0 to 1, where 1 corresponds to the maximum current. The variable Rx represents the return number for beam x.

However, as the maximum return was previously set to 1, the value of Rx is consistently 1 for all points in the point cloud, rendering this parameter non-informative for the given data set.
